

## 실리콘밸리 S01 E01
------------------------------------------

내가 듣고 받아쓴 문장
> 실제 문장
__굵게: 특히 잘못알아들은 부분__



### #1
------------------------------------------

somebody makes some mutherfucking noises! here! fuck this people

man, this places unbeliverble.

fucking Goolybib, man.

> This guys __build a__ mediocre something SW that might be worth someday but now they lives here.

> The money flying over silicon valley but __non of it__ ever seems __to__ heet us.

What the hell are you eating?

liquid shim, it s 200 $ core.
> liquid __shrimp__, it's 200 $ __a quart__.

while you do friend meal. 
> Wylie Dufresene __made it__.

how does it taste?

like how i what a imagine cum taste.
> Like how i __would__ imagine cum taste__s__.

You guys take in all in?
> You guys __taking it__ all in?

because  this is very looks like when google acquires a company for over $200M 
> Because This is __what it__ looks like when google acquires __your__ company for over 200M

whatever these fucked guys name inq fortrio.
> Whatever the fuck the guys name is __who created__ photrio.

Kill rock is the poorist person in here. apart from you guys.
> __I mean__, Kid Rock is the poorest person here.

OK? there is $40B from that worth walking around this party 
> OK, there is $40B __of net worth__ walking around this party 

And you guys standing around dringking shrimp to talk about cum taste like.
> And you guys __are__ standing around dringking shrimp, __and talking__ about what cum taste__s__ like.

Yeah, I heard that.

you guys lived in my inqubator, you got a network.
> you guys __live__ in my incubator, you__'ve__ got a network.

That's why i brought you here.


Ah, I've got reason here, Jarvayd over there is my x roommate.
> Ug, I __got us in__ here

Yeah, but I draw.
> Yeah, but I __drove.__



### #2
------------------------------------------

It is amazing  man and women at these things allways seperates like this.
> Its amazing __how the__ men and women at these things

Yeah, everybody in S.V is like a hot citic way.
> Yeah, __every party__ in S.V __ends up__ like a Hasidic __wedding__.

Not even goolibib girl we are talking a girl
> Not even __the__ Goolybib __guys__ __were__ talking __to__ girls.

They dont have to big head.
this house talks to girl.
i got 7 words for you.
i love goolibib integrative multi platform functionality.

but serioudly, few days ago when i were setting down with B.Obama
> but serioudly, few days ago when __we__ were setting down with B.Obama

I tured it these guys. and said OK. 
> I tured __to__ these guys. and said 

OK, you know we making a lot of money, 

and yes we were disrupting digital media, but most importantly
> And yes, we __are__ disrupting digital media.

We are making the world better place.
> We are making the world __a__ better place.

to constructing elegant hierarchies for maximum code reuse extentianality
> __Through__ constructing elegant hierarchies for maximum code reuse __and__ extensibility.




### #3
------------------------------------------

BH there is a personal sexual ?? ?? site
> Big Head, there is a personal __ad section on this Asperger__ site.

Holly shit, This one is looking for a relationship that has potential to become a sexual a nature.
Holy shit, this one is looking for a relationship that has __the__ potential to become sexual __in__ nature.

...

Where is she under spectrum,
> __Boy__, is she __on the__ spectrum.

she can't even eye contact with the camera.
> She can't even __make__ eye contact with the camera.

R, can I talk with you for sec? solo.
we need to talk about PP

What about? 
> What about __it__?

The website has been running, I am just redesining compression. It just needed users.
> The website __is up and__ running, I'm just redesigning __the__ compression.  It just needs users.

Yeah, No shit.
But even if somebody want to use it,

They won't(would not) be able to figure out how to. It is in comprehensible.
> they __wouldn't__ be able to figure out how to.  It's incomprehensible.
 

when you pitched about PP, you say we can gonna be the google fo music.
> when you pitched me Pied Piper you __said it was __gonna be, The Google of Music.


which is rellay rad way to pitch something. but I like it.
Which is __a__ really rad way to pitch something. __I mean__, I liked it.

I thought you had a application.
> I thought __it__ had applications.

No It has all that.

If it will once reaches a critical massive users,
__Look, when it blows up__, and it will once __it__ reaches a critical __mass of__ users,

PP will be able to such a whole world the fine the musics what is a match 
> PP will be able to __search__ the whole world of recorded music to find out if there's a match


to see ????
> to see if you're infringing on any copyrighted material.

OK, first of all, nobody gives a shit about steal others peoples music ok?
> Ok, first of all, nobody __gives__ a shit about __stealing__ other people's music, okay?


Everybody involved in music industry is either steeling or sharing all bunch of asshole especially RadioHead 
> Everybody involved in __the__ music industry is either stealing it or sharing it. __They're all a__ bunch of assholes, especially Radiohead.

Look, RCHD If you wanna live here, You've got a deliver.
> look, Richard, if you want to live here, you've got __to__ deliver.

I cant have dead weght in my incubator okay?. 
> I can't have dead weight __at__ my incubator, okay?

either that shows some promise for fuck sake
> Either that, __or__ show some promise, for fuck's sake.

like Nipple alert. big hear's app.

Gives a location of the women with elected nipple
> __It__ gives __you the__ location of a woman with erect nipple__s__.

and that is people want 
> __Now,__ that's __something__ people want.

RCHD you need to get in touch with humanity.

when I sold my company Aviato, I wanted to give back. 

that's why i started this place. Do something big to make somthing difference.
> __to__ do something big. To make a difference.




### #4
------------------------------------------

